---
layout: post
title:  "CheckSec.py for Windows PE (Portable Executables) binaries"
author: Clarissa Podell
date:   2018-08-26
description: Article on CheckSec.py tool
excerpt: Article on CheckSec.py tool
comments: false
mathjax: false
toc: true
last_modified_at: 2017-03-09 T13:01:27-05:00
categories:
   - windows
   - exploit
tags:
   - windows
   - exploit
---


When I first began learning exploit development (in Linux), there was a tool I loved called `checksec`.  I still haven't found something exactly like this in Windows, so I decided to make one of my own.

[checksec.sh](http://www.trapkit.de/tools/checksec.html)

Modern Linux distributions offer some mitigation techniques to make it harder to exploit software vulnerabilities reliably. Mitigations such as RELRO, NoExecute (NX), Stack Canaries, Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) and Position Independent Executables (PIE) have made reliably exploiting any vulnerabilities that do exist far more challenging. The checksec.sh script is designed to test what standard Linux OS security features are being used.

 I extended that script to also support other memory corruption mitigation techniques. The extended version is now called "checksec.sh" and is able to check Linux ELF executables and running processes if they support the following mitigation techniques: RELRO, Stack Canaries, NX, PIE and ASLR

  A little tool for quickly surveying the mitigation technologies in use by processes on a Linux system. The script also lists the status of various Linux kernel protection mechanisms.

The Portable Executable (PE) format is a file format for executables, object code and DLLs, used in 32-bit and  64-bit versions of Windows operating systems
The PE format is a data structure that encapsulates the information necessary for the Windows OS loader to manage the wrapped executable code


pesec - check for protections in PE files
pesec identify if a PE file is using some protection scheme like DEP/NX or ASLR. It's part of pev, the PE file analysis toolkit.
Search for protections in \fBputty.exe\fP:
pesec.c - Check for security features in PE files.

http://pev.sourceforge.net/doc/manual/en_us/ch05.html

Security tests

Not all binaries are suspicious. You might have some normal binaries to study, finding vulnerabilities on it, etc. You can use pesec to check security features in PE files. It may be useful for programmers or vulnerability researchers. Have a look:

```
$ pesec about.exe

ASLR:                            no
DEP/NX:                          no
SEH:                             yes
Stack cookies (EXPERIMENTAL):    yes
```

Currently pesec can discover if the PE file has ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization), DEP (Data Execution Prevention) / NX (No eXecutable bit), SEH (Structured Exception Handling) and Stack Cookies, as known as Canary, enabled. If you want to use pesec, you probably know what these protection schemes are. ;)

We experimentally support stack cookies put by Visual Studio only but we do really have plans to extend this support. Stay tuned!
