---
layout: post
title:  "Control-Flow Integrity and Microsoft’s Control Flow Guard (CFG)"
date:   2018-06-01 13:46:52
comments: false
categories: windows exploit
tags:
   - windows
   - exploit
---

## Intro
Exploit development and exploit mitigation techniques are among my favorite topics in cybersecurity.  I first came across exploit mitigations while playing online wargames.  At first, like many others I’m sure, I found these defenses frustrating as my normal late 90’s-style techniques failed.  However, after learning about more advanced exploitation techniques, I have now come to appreciate exploit mitigations and equally appreciate the techniques to bypass them.  The ingenuity and sophistication of exploits that outsmart defenses is fascinating.  What’s more, I find the techniques to bypass these defenses exhilarating – the ingenuity of outsmarting defenses developed by the efforts of very intelligent defense teams.

Control-Flow Integrity (CFI) is an exploit mitigation technique that has existed for over a decade (mostly in theory) to defend against a class of exploit techniques called control-flow hijacking attacks.  In these attacks, a user attempts to divert normal program execution to run arbitrary instructions with the same privileges as the program, usually with malicious intent.  CFI promises to limit program execution to valid traces only based on a pre-determined Control-Flow Graph based on the programmer’s intended design.  This makes it more difficult for attackers to redirect execution maliciously.  Researchers have found it difficult to implement CFI because of concerns varying from additional overhead and computing costs, compatibility issues, and the difficulty of creating an accurate Control-Flow Graph.  Only recently have we seen widespread acceptance with the deployment of production-ready technologies in late 2014 from Microsoft and LLVM/Clang. Microsoft’s Control-Flow Guard in November 2014 and LLVM/Clang’s CFI around the same time.

So, when the time came to choose a topic for my senior research project, I convinced my team of 3 other students to agree with the topic of Bypassing Control Flow Integrity.  We chose to focus on Microsoft’s CFI implementation called Control-Flow Guard (CFG) mostly because of its popularity and relevancy to the current security landscape.

In this post, I will provide a brief summary of CFG internals that I [accumulated/compiled during my research] learned during this research.  This is similar to a cheatsheet that I used during my research.  
Most of this information was acquired while working on a research project exploring techniques to bypass CFG.  

## Control-Flow Guard Internals
A compiler-based security mechanism that combats exploitation of memory corruption vulnerabilities commonly found in programs written in unsafe programming lanuages such as C and C++.  Extra runtime security checks can detect attempts to alter the intended flow of code, known as a control-flow hijack attack.  Makes it much harder for exploits to execute arbitrary code through memory corruption vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows.
A combination of compile and run-time support from CFG implements control flow integrity that tightly restricts where indirect call instructions can execute.

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>

void foo() {
	printf("Inside indirect call.\n");

}

void main(int argc, char** argv) {
	void (*fptr)();
	fptr = foo;
	(*fptr)();     // Indirect call
}
{% endhighlight %}

### Enable

MSVC’s `/guard:cf` switch enables compiler generation of Control Flow Guard security checks.  When enabled, the compiler analyzes control flow for valid indirect call targets at compile time, and then inserts code to verify the targets at runtime [[1]](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn919635.aspx). The valid call sites identified by the compiler are stored in extra structures in the headers of your binaries and used at runtime to validate destination locations of indirect calls.



### Sources
`[1].` [/guard (Enable Control Flow Guard)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn919635.aspx)
